<h1 align="center">2022-2023 OpenSSF Meeting Notes</h1>

<h2 align="center">Security Tooling WG</h2>

<h4 align="center">**SBOM Everywhere SIG**</h4>

<h3>Meeting Info:</h3>



When: Every other Tuesday at 11:05 Eastern - [OpenSSF Public Calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/u/0/r?cid=czYzdm9lZmhwNWk5cGZsdGI1cTY3bmdwZXNAZ3JvdXAuY2FsZW5kYXIuZ29vZ2xlLmNvbQ)

Mailing list:	[openssf-sig-sbom](https://lists.openssf.org/g/openssf-sig-sbom) _(join to receive calendar invite)_

Discussion: #stream-9-sbom-everywhere on [OpenSSF Slack Channel](https://app.slack.com/client/T019QHUBYQ3/C03GKSYFRC0)

GitHub:[sbom-everywhere](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere)



<h3>Antitrust Policy Notice</h3>


<p align="justify">Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.</p>

<p align="justify">Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at [http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy](http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy). If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.</p>

<h3>Meeting notes</h3>


Most recent on top.

Meeting TO DO items will be tracked in [GitHub](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues)

<h3>Future agenda items</h3>




* Ian’s SBOM low level tooling standardization
* SBOM interoperability [Csaba]


**Please use the [2024 Meeting Notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/193ODRga1F49WKPYYR79SNi9b27mChBqpOf5iiWJcMso/edit?usp=sharing)**

<h3>2023-12-19</h3>


Attendees (please add yourself)



* Josh Bressers (Anchore)
* Marius Biebel (hm.edu)
* Karen Bennet(IEEE)
* Janane Suresh (Oracle)
* Jarrett Lu (Oracle)
* Yotam Perkal (Rezilion)

Agenda:



* Please paste an intro into the chat
* Update on SBOM Naming document
    * [https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/blob/main/reference/sbom_naming.md](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/blob/main/reference/sbom_naming.md)
* CISA package naming document response
    * [https://openssf.org/blog/2023/12/11/openssf-responds-to-the-cisa-rfc-on-software-identification-ecosystem-analysis/](https://openssf.org/blog/2023/12/11/openssf-responds-to-the-cisa-rfc-on-software-identification-ecosystem-analysis/)
* Tracking SBOM tools?
    * This came up in the tooling WG last week
    * The CISA SBOM tooling WG is tracking some of the tools
        * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1I8qVms7YDJK4L_5gMYhrN9uYdy-SGp49WqecaimqHnw/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1I8qVms7YDJK4L_5gMYhrN9uYdy-SGp49WqecaimqHnw/edit)
    * All CISA groups
        * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1itBra03riwVIgvrn1xp35DuvCFOJ6T8DJgs_3pSxsCM/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1itBra03riwVIgvrn1xp35DuvCFOJ6T8DJgs_3pSxsCM/edit)
    * Maybe start by finding working groups and listing them
    * WIP: [https://gitlab.com/Mariuxdeangelo/sbom-landscape](https://gitlab.com/Mariuxdeangelo/sbom-landscape)
    * WIP Page (broken): [https://sbom-landscape-mariuxdeangelo-fcb98eaa10c9d38560ebf42b6088dfa1c.gitlab.io/](https://sbom-landscape-mariuxdeangelo-fcb98eaa10c9d38560ebf42b6088dfa1c.gitlab.io/)
* Review strike team proposal
    * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/15_FKO8D03VSYDTNsMQZtn1aRfgVmModF-NM6VBnlrZA/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/15_FKO8D03VSYDTNsMQZtn1aRfgVmModF-NM6VBnlrZA/edit)
* FOSDEM SBOM Devroom Agenda
    * [https://fosdem.org/2024/schedule/track/software-bill-of-materials/](https://fosdem.org/2024/schedule/track/software-bill-of-materials/)
* FOSDEM Agenda
    * [https://fosdem.org/2024/schedule/tracks/](https://fosdem.org/2024/schedule/tracks/)
* **Action items**
    * Kate to invite Lynn to this meeting
    * Marius come back to show off tool when more people are around
        * Work with CISA to populate this
    * Josh and Kate to chat the first week of January to nail down an agenda
    * Next Meeting 16 of January

<h3>2023-11-21</h3>


Attendees (please add yourself)



* Marius Biebel (hm.edu)
* Kate Stewart (Linux Foundation)
* Maximilian Huber (TNG Technology Consulting)
* Josh Bressers (Anchore)
* Nisha Kumar (Oracle)
* Janane Suresh (Oracle)
* Jeff Borek (IBM)
* Ian Dunbar-Hall (Lockheed Martin)
* Ryan Ware (Intel)
* Art Manion

Agenda:



* Please paste an intro into the chat
* Josh found this spiffy SBOM calendar from CISA (I think it’s from CISA)
    * [https://calendar.google.com/calendar/u/0/embed?src=hqnbr3lk8ngjgv04g6ir5d5duc@group.calendar.google.com&ctz=America/New_York](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/u/0/embed?src=hqnbr3lk8ngjgv04g6ir5d5duc@group.calendar.google.com&ctz=America/New_York)
        * Note: most calendar entries have no VC coordinates
* Update on SBOM Naming document
    * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-jFoh_R7FV4NhHuUkt4Atz3h4K9b4bnmolntSbytspE/edit#heading=h.ybdh wwe 1qj](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-jFoh_R7FV4NhHuUkt4Atz3h4K9b4bnmolntSbytspE/edit#heading=h.ybdhvwe1uvqj)
    * Run this through the tooling WG
    * Josh to copy the naming document to GitHub
        * [https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/blob/main/reference/sbom_naming.md](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/blob/main/reference/sbom_naming.md)
        * Also lock the google doc and add a link (archived)
        * [(DRAFT) CISA SBOM Primer Document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/11t72-ZM0pC1QbrgoxpZhpnkR5M1iJzR7yUpuvJQExD8/edit#heading=h.wyf9rdqv49ke)
    * 
* Review strike team proposal
    * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/15_FKO8D03VSYDTNsMQZtn1aRfgVmModF-NM6VBnlrZA/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/15_FKO8D03VSYDTNsMQZtn1aRfgVmModF-NM6VBnlrZA/edit)
    * OpenSSF MVS
        * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_oLsODuHRv2kYYn8meBUc9T6e68BZQFsknYBG642acw/edit#heading=h.e9uhthj01hdc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_oLsODuHRv2kYYn8meBUc9T6e68BZQFsknYBG642acw/edit#heading=h.e9uhthj01hdc)
        * MVSR template
            * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1p6hOlE4eH1xvQ9pP7swCH2tmIJJ-6G3vnYI8MDzSCQk/edit#heading=h.h9d3nj3ybue3](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1p6hOlE4eH1xvQ9pP7swCH2tmIJJ-6G3vnYI8MDzSCQk/edit#heading=h.h9d3nj3ybue3)
        * Example MVSR
            * [https://github.com/ossf/wg-best-practices-os-developers](https://github.com/ossf/wg-best-practices-os-developers)
* PURL generation [push this out a meeting]
    * [https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/issues/242](https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/issues/242)
    * This will be an issue that comes up during strike team
    * [https://sbom.seclab.cs.hm.edu/](https://sbom.seclab.cs.hm.edu/#/)
    * Find FOSDEM purl talk
        * <add link here>
* FOSDEM SBOM dev room CFP is open
    * [https://hackmd.io/@spdx/fosdem2024-cfp](https://hackmd.io/@spdx/fosdem2024-cfp) 

<h3>2023-11-07</h3>


Attendees (please add yourself)



* Josh Bressers (Anchore)
* Maximilian Huber (TNG Technology Consulting)
* Kate Stewart (Linux Foundation)
* Ian Dunbar-Hall (Lockheed Martin)
* Ryan Searle (Snyk)
* Janane Suresh(Oracle)
* Marius Biebel (hm.edu)
* Georg Kunz (Ericsson)
* Patricia Tarro (Dell Technologies)
* Sarah Evans (Dell Technologies)
* Matt Rutkowski (IBM)

Agenda:



* Please paste an intro into the chat
* SBOM Naming
    * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-jFoh_R7FV4NhHuUkt4Atz3h4K9b4bnmolntSbytspE/edit#heading=h.ybdhvwe1uvqj](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-jFoh_R7FV4NhHuUkt4Atz3h4K9b4bnmolntSbytspE/edit#heading=h.ybdhvwe1uvqj)
    * Maybe follow this process
        * ​​[https://best.openssf.org/spp/Simplest-Possible-Process](https://best.openssf.org/spp/Simplest-Possible-Process)
        * Ask Ryan Ware also as the tooling WG lead
    * Look at this (ScoreCard naming)
        * [https://github.com/ossf/scorecard/issues/3574](https://github.com/ossf/scorecard/issues/3574)
        * 
* Review strike team proposal
    * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/15_FKO8D03VSYDTNsMQZtn1aRfgVmModF-NM6VBnlrZA/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/15_FKO8D03VSYDTNsMQZtn1aRfgVmModF-NM6VBnlrZA/edit)
* PURL generation [push this out a meeting]
    * [https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/issues/242](https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/issues/242)
    * This will be an issue that comes up during strike team
    * [https://sbom.seclab.cs.hm.edu/](https://sbom.seclab.cs.hm.edu/#/)
* RFC (Sarah Evans): [https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2023/10/26/2023-23668/request-for-comment-on-software-identification-ecosystem-option-analysis](https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2023/10/26/2023-23668/request-for-comment-on-software-identification-ecosystem-option-analysis)  Due Dec 11. I believe members of this SIG should engage as SMEs in an OpenSSF response. 
    * GB has a public policy committee
    * They are spinning up a group to create a response to the RFC
    * Ask Sarah Evans or David Wheeler if you want to be involved

<h3>2023-10-24</h3>


Attendees (please add yourself)



* Josh Bressers (Anchore)
* Marius biebel (hm.edu)
* Csaba Zoltani (Nokia)
* Andres Orbe
* Matt Rutkowski (IBM)

Agenda:



* Please paste an intro into the chat
* SBOM Naming
    * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-jFoh_R7FV4NhHuUkt4Atz3h4K9b4bnmolntSbytspE/edit#heading=h.ybdhvwe1uvqj](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-jFoh_R7FV4NhHuUkt4Atz3h4K9b4bnmolntSbytspE/edit#heading=h.ybdhvwe1uvqj)
* Review strike team proposal
    * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/15_FKO8D03VSYDTNsMQZtn1aRfgVmModF-NM6VBnlrZA/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/15_FKO8D03VSYDTNsMQZtn1aRfgVmModF-NM6VBnlrZA/edit)
* PURL generation
    * [https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/issues/242](https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/issues/242)
    * This will be an issue that comes up during strike team
    * [https://sbom.seclab.cs.hm.edu/](https://sbom.seclab.cs.hm.edu/#/)
    * Discuss this next week

<h3>2023-10-10</h3>


Attendees (please add yourself)



* Josh Bressers (Anchore)
* Ian Dunbar-Hall (Lockheed Martin)
* Seth Larson (PSF)
* Marius Biebel (hm.edu)
* Georg Kunz (Ericsson)
* Gary O’Neall (Source Auditor / SPDX)
* Jarrett Lu (Oracle)
* Jared Miller (SAP)
* Ryan Ware (Intel)
* Dan Appelquist (Snyk, TAC)
* Josh Buker (Cloud Security Alliance)
* Janane Suresh (Oracle)
* Dana Wang (OpenSSF)
* Patricia Tarro (Dell)

Agenda:



* Please paste an intro into the chat
* SBOM Naming
    * [https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/blob/main/reference/sbom_naming.md](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/blob/main/reference/sbom_naming.md) ← DO NOT LOOK AT THIS, look at the google doc below
        * David A. Wheeler:
            * The current text suggests that the suffix end in “_spdx.json” and “_cyclonedx.xml”. It gives as its examples sbom.projectname_v1.2.3_spdx.json or sbom.projectname_v1.2.3_cyclonedx.xml
            * I do NOT recommend this file naming format. I think the file naming extensions should be of the form .spdx.json and E.g.: [https://github.com/spdx/tools-java/blob/master/testResources/SPDXJSONExample-v2.2.spdx.json](https://github.com/spdx/tools-java/blob/master/testResources/SPDXJSONExample-v2.2.spdx.json)
            * Recommend changing “_spdx” and “_cyclonedx” to use “.” instead of “_”
        * Marius Biebel
            * I did not find any hint as to why we decided to put 'SBOM' first as a prefix. I think that in a repository with several artifacts, this will mess up the alphabetical ordering, so the SBOMs are never grouped with the related artifacts. Are there any examples where a prefix is used as a file naming convention? The ones I found are prefixed with an index or timestamp to influence the order of the files.
    * We will work out of this document then merge changes back into GitHub
    * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-jFoh_R7FV4NhHuUkt4Atz3h4K9b4bnmolntSbytspE/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-jFoh_R7FV4NhHuUkt4Atz3h4K9b4bnmolntSbytspE/edit) ← LOOK AT THIS ONE
* Review strike team proposal
    * [https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/blob/2494c23ed8d8e2d39bb875e2f52c20bc05be6c9c/action-plan/best-practices/README.md](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/blob/2494c23ed8d8e2d39bb875e2f52c20bc05be6c9c/action-plan/best-practices/README.md)
    * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/15_FKO8D03VSYDTNsMQZtn1aRfgVmModF-NM6VBnlrZA/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/15_FKO8D03VSYDTNsMQZtn1aRfgVmModF-NM6VBnlrZA/edit)
* Landscape plan
    * Fork this
    * [https://github.com/spdx/sbom-landscape](https://github.com/spdx/sbom-landscape)
    * Then change it
    * [https://observablehq.com/@d3/zoomable-circle-packing?intent=fork](https://observablehq.com/@d3/zoomable-circle-packing?intent=fork)
        * Marius is going to take a look at this

<h3>2023-9-26</h3>


Attendees (please add yourself)



* Please use the tools [attendees](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1jzxhzIfkOMTagpeFWYoZpMKwHYeO4Gc7Eq5FcMFEw2c/edit#) list as we using that meeting

Agenda:



* SBOM Naming
    * [https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/blob/main/reference/sbom_naming.md](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/blob/main/reference/sbom_naming.md)
    * We will work out of this document then merge changes back into GitHub
    * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-jFoh_R7FV4NhHuUkt4Atz3h4K9b4bnmolntSbytspE/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-jFoh_R7FV4NhHuUkt4Atz3h4K9b4bnmolntSbytspE/edit)
* Review strike team proposal
    * [https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/blob/2494c23ed8d8e2d39bb875e2f52c20bc05be6c9c/action-plan/best-practices/README.md](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/blob/2494c23ed8d8e2d39bb875e2f52c20bc05be6c9c/action-plan/best-practices/README.md)
    * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/15_FKO8D03VSYDTNsMQZtn1aRfgVmModF-NM6VBnlrZA/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/15_FKO8D03VSYDTNsMQZtn1aRfgVmModF-NM6VBnlrZA/edit)
* Landscape plan
    * Fork this
    * [https://github.com/spdx/sbom-landscape](https://github.com/spdx/sbom-landscape)
    * Then change it
* Notes:
    * Are there any existing landscapes we can help with instead of building our own?
        * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1UeV0BhZHKBIJY8fi40hAly3jP_dH9u7Nao4Alw8fY0Y/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1UeV0BhZHKBIJY8fi40hAly3jP_dH9u7Nao4Alw8fY0Y/edit)

<h3>2023-9-12</h3>


Attendees (please add yourself)



* Please use the tools [attendees](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1jzxhzIfkOMTagpeFWYoZpMKwHYeO4Gc7Eq5FcMFEw2c/edit#) list as we using that meeting

Agenda:



* SBOM Naming
    * [https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/blob/main/reference/sbom_naming.md](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/blob/main/reference/sbom_naming.md)
    * We will work out of this document then merge changes back into GitHub
    * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-jFoh_R7FV4NhHuUkt4Atz3h4K9b4bnmolntSbytspE/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-jFoh_R7FV4NhHuUkt4Atz3h4K9b4bnmolntSbytspE/edit)
    * 
* Looking for volunteers to work with Sarah & Dan on refining: [https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/tree/main/action-plan](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/tree/main/action-plan) into a budget estimate (like the education plan)
* Review strike team proposal
    * [https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/blob/2494c23ed8d8e2d39bb875e2f52c20bc05be6c9c/action-plan/best-practices/README.md](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/blob/2494c23ed8d8e2d39bb875e2f52c20bc05be6c9c/action-plan/best-practices/README.md)
* Notes:

<h3>2023-8-29</h3>


Attendees (please add yourself)



* Please use the tools [attendees](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1jzxhzIfkOMTagpeFWYoZpMKwHYeO4Gc7Eq5FcMFEw2c/edit#) list as we using that meeting

Agenda:



* SBOM Naming
    * [https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/blob/main/reference/sbom_naming.md](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/blob/main/reference/sbom_naming.md)
    * We will work out of this document then merge changes back into GitHub
    * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-jFoh_R7FV4NhHuUkt4Atz3h4K9b4bnmolntSbytspE/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-jFoh_R7FV4NhHuUkt4Atz3h4K9b4bnmolntSbytspE/edit)
* Looking for volunteers to work with Sarah & Dan on refining: [https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/tree/main/action-plan](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/tree/main/action-plan) into a budget estimate (like the education plan)
* Review strike team proposal
    * [https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/blob/2494c23ed8d8e2d39bb875e2f52c20bc05be6c9c/action-plan/best-practices/README.md](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/blob/2494c23ed8d8e2d39bb875e2f52c20bc05be6c9c/action-plan/best-practices/README.md)
* Notes:
* [https://jreleaser.org/](https://jreleaser.org/)
    * Look at this for naming
* [https://reuse.software/dev/](https://reuse.software/dev/)
    * Low level projects are using this

<h3>2023-8-15</h3>


Attendees (please add yourself)



* Please use the tools [attendees](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1jzxhzIfkOMTagpeFWYoZpMKwHYeO4Gc7Eq5FcMFEw2c/edit#) list as we using that meeting

Agenda:



* SBOM Naming
    * [https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/blob/main/reference/sbom_naming.md](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/blob/main/reference/sbom_naming.md)
* Next Steps:  looking for volunteers to work with Sarah & Dan on refining: [https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/tree/main/action-plan](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/tree/main/action-plan) into a budget estimate (like the education [plan](https://github.com/ossf/education/tree/main/plan))
* SBOM action plan
    * [https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/blob/2494c23ed8d8e2d39bb875e2f52c20bc05be6c9c/action-plan/best-practices/README.md](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/blob/2494c23ed8d8e2d39bb875e2f52c20bc05be6c9c/action-plan/best-practices/README.md)
    * Strike team - looking for volunteers
* [SBOMit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1WtFPcmKVDxO7Vkfmh6au10PFzKNrwRtxXHIdi-XWUOE/edit#heading=h.hehkfbc98h5b) - Sandbox Support
    * [https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1l3dPqw67uf9VQ4yJEbhZkjhHhhhEYpjGdrWclmdTJFg/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1l3dPqw67uf9VQ4yJEbhZkjhHhhhEYpjGdrWclmdTJFg/edit?usp=sharing) 
    * Intoto verified SBOMs
    * SBoMit SBoM in toto[ SBOMit](https://sbomit.dev/)
    * Done in response to CNCF graduating next level
    * -[ https://in-toto.io/security-audit-23/](https://in-toto.io/security-audit-23/)
    * -[ https://in-toto.io/2023-security-audit-report.pdf](https://in-toto.io/2023-security-audit-report.pdf)
    * Provide a process to cryptographically verify the process that created the SBOM and we can go back and link it to the final artifact. Use SPIFFE/SPIRE, Keylime, SGX for attestation.
    * Looking for a home in Security Tooling WG. Josh B will go to TAC and work to revive Security Tooling WG leadership, as he wants to focus on SBOM Everywhere SIG. Arnaud Le Hors, TAC, mentioned helping to revive the topic. Sarah Evans suggested LF Staff project management could help the Security Tooling WG while new volunteer leadership is recruited.
    * Arnaud Le Hors suggested SBOMit go through the process through the TAC to become an OpenSSF project with a WG home.If there is no code, only a specification, licensing is different and the process to be a SIG is similar to a project with code. He also suggested that SBOMit shouldn’t limit itself to Security Tooling WG, there are other good options too like Supply Chain Integrity WG that has S2C2F.
* SBOM meetups in Vegas
    * One at BSides, one at DEFCON
    * This isn't easy for everyone (but we have to work forward)
    * SBOM tool makers acknowledge the tools have various strengths
    * How to integrate with existing tooling
    * [https://blogs.cisco.com/security/demonstrating-transparency-through-software-bill-of-materials-sbom](https://blogs.cisco.com/security/demonstrating-transparency-through-software-bill-of-materials-sbom)

<h3>2023-8-01</h3>


Attendees (please add yourself)



* Please use the tools [attendees](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1jzxhzIfkOMTagpeFWYoZpMKwHYeO4Gc7Eq5FcMFEw2c/edit#) list as we using that meeting

Agenda:



* Dan & Sarah to provide update at next meeting
    * Dan’s SBOM Naming [https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/blob/main/reference/sbom_naming.md](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/blob/main/reference/sbom_naming.md)
    * SBOM sharing and standard naming convention.
    * Looking to pull a proposal together and secure funding from the TAC
    * Initial draft - referenced above, and looking for input.
    * Sarah:  See ossf/education/plan/ as an example.   This is a good next step for our interest group. Lining up problem and establish chunks and milestones,  budget request.   
    * Allan: Does it make sense to align naming conventions with wider space?   
        * Sarah:  looking to leverage where ever possible, where action is happening.    
        * Dan:  Naming conventions in general, and then vector to specific formats.   In vendor neutral way, what should SBOMs look like.   Should get SPDX & CycloneDX communities to sign off on “neutral” conventions.   
        * Josh: Maven may have it's own naming system already.   
        * Rob: Discrepancies between named standards, great if can harmonize, but at least having a mapping will help. 
        * Dan: Looking to help SCM to put a “badge” on your page, when the information is present. 
        * Ian: Scorecard - how should it detecte it's being generated.  Python has concensus model. 
        * Dan: Establishing “OpenSSF” best practices to use in ScoreCards as well.
        * Kate:  Best practices Badging might be interested.
        * Sarah:   Risk driven from ScoreCards might be interested as well.   Adding in interlock
    * Next Steps:  looking for volunteers to work with Sarah & Dan on refining: [https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/tree/main/action-plan](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/tree/main/action-plan) into a budget estimate (like the education [plan](https://github.com/ossf/education/tree/main/plan)).
        * Josh suggests sending email to sbom-everywhere mailing list.  & nudge in slack.
* RFC on grouping SBOMs [KateS]
    * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1lboLuuyb2jVkQ0PNaUjpvAgRqWDjh8rmeMABshJkLQM/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1lboLuuyb2jVkQ0PNaUjpvAgRqWDjh8rmeMABshJkLQM/edit)
        * Work going on under CISA tooling effort
        * How should we refer to a set of things being shipped/tested together.
        * Allan asked if we should wait until the naming is sorted?   Kate considers this be orthogonal. 
        * Ask Kate if you have questions
        * Feel free to comment on that doc
* Josh’s SBOM action plan
    * [https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/blob/2494c23ed8d8e2d39bb875e2f52c20bc05be6c9c/action-plan/best-practices/README.md](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/blob/2494c23ed8d8e2d39bb875e2f52c20bc05be6c9c/action-plan/best-practices/README.md)
    * Strike team - looking for volunteers.   
    * Best practices PR.  AI:  Kate to review PR in detail, and then accept in. 
    * Naming conventions when into reference folder,  maybe it should be a “best practice” new folder?
* Allan working with the German government
    * BSI has expertise and is understanding how SBOM/VEX work for their own use

<h3>2023-7-18</h3>


Attendees (please add yourself)



* Please use the tools [attendees](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1jzxhzIfkOMTagpeFWYoZpMKwHYeO4Gc7Eq5FcMFEw2c/edit#) list as we using that meeting

Agenda:



* Please introduce yourself in the chat
    * Everyone, not just new people
* Evaluation of OSS SBOM (Marius Biebel)
    * Tried as many tools as possible on several packages
    * Big problem: Different tools use different names, making it sometimes hard to align the results.
    * One of the tools has problems with false positives - 46% bad references, etc.   Same component listed multiple times, didn’t validate.   
    * Project is very much work in progress - naming problem. Currently it just changes non-alpha to underscores, so the pURLs are generally wrong, many other names wrong; this was to get started
    * Currently in a private repo, uses Postgres database
    * Contact: mbiebel@hm.edu
    * [https://sbom.seclab.cs.hm.edu/#/](https://sbom.seclab.cs.hm.edu/#/) 
* Discussion on handling sensitive SBOM information (Sarah Evans)?
    * Looking at proposal for a SIG on this (Dan & Sarah added to github)
    * Exploring ways to facilitate and improve access management decisions once they create them.
    * White paper on sharing SBOMs from Energy and CISA. https://www.cisa.gov/resources-tools/resources/software-bill-materials-sbom-sharing-lifecycle-report. tl;dr - we can break the problem down 
    * CISA sharing SBOMs working group - staying focused on sharing.  Current lay of the land.
        * MUD - secure point for metadata for devices
        * DBOM - secure access control overlay - built with multiparty supply chain in mind. 
    * This is principle blocker for Enterprise SBOM distribution.
        * Portal with person/password access and logging.
        * Pieces of being released
        * Contractual language can be used. 
        * Key challenge of access control - tool provisioning, especially for SaaS tools
    * What do we need for open source world? 
        * Naming conventions are emerging.   Should we document?   
            * MIME types?   Can we reinforce it?
                * Media types play a role for metadata: for example: [https://cyclonedx.org/specification/overview/#registered-media-types](https://cyclonedx.org/specification/overview/#registered-media-types)
        * Conventions on placement.
        * Point to where work is happening. 
    * What are use cases for restricted information on SBOMs. 
    * What are best practices for sharing sets of SBOM information as a coherent set.    → may be separate dimension
    * Different approaches for sharing:  portals, locations, emails, etc.
    *  was the document we were tracking use cases in. Could we update with SBOM sharing use cases?
    * How is this going to interact with signing SBOMs
        * Signed SBOM; has links in it, and different systems
        * URLs - say where it's from but not sure how to download
        * Different boundaries private vs. public - top level product, and customer with access clearance for next level, etc. 
        * Want to see best practices for signing, on incoming and outgoing,  should explore in proposal.    Signed SBOMs & Signed Code are both worth considering.
    * AI: Dan & Sarah to update the github document.
    * AI: Dan to share his draft naming conventions document in github.
    * TODO:  Dan & Sarah to provide update at next meeting. 

<h3>2023-06-20</h3>


Attendees (please add yourself)



* Please use the tools [attendees](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1jzxhzIfkOMTagpeFWYoZpMKwHYeO4Gc7Eq5FcMFEw2c/edit#) list as we using that meeting

Agenda:



* Please introduce yourself in the chat
    * Everyone, not just new people
* Georg: my colleague Faseela will talk about her experiences implementing SPDX build SBoMs for Istio 
    * Istio is a service mesh solution for k8s
    * Istio is part of CNCF
    * Uses the bom utility from the k8s sig
        * A golang project (bom works on go projects)
    * Initially looked at a SPDX utility, but decided to use the bom utility for support reasons
    * Wrote [RFC](https://docs.google.com/document/d/10ITZUUf-aGbeiBKfr-EqrQTPfPpVQmUT/edit) document for Istio community
        * Everyone wants to do it, but nobody has time to do the work
        * Faseela did the work
    * Each Istio release publishes SBOMs now
        * [https://github.com/istio/istio/releases](https://github.com/istio/istio/releases)
        * SPDX for now (source and build)
        * Want to also publish CycloneDX
        * Bom only outputs SPDX
    * Working on SLSA Level 2 compliance (which this helps with)
    * Use cosign to sign all the artifacts
    * They haven’t had to do any significant maintenance to keep this running
    * They have one module in C++ which bom doesn’t detect (it’s go only)
    * 
* Dan Applequist:  to talk on Snyk’s experiences with SBOMs
    * Open Source group at Snyk
    * They have an internal SBOM format at Snyk
    * Let customers generate SBOMs off of internal representation
        * CycloneDX and SPDX
    * Offering SBOM generation as a feature
    * Working on SBOM ingestion
    * Recently open sourced a tool to enrich SBOMs
        * Customers asking for license information
    * Found SPDX spec harder to understand
        * For example how to describe relationships between components
        * Enrichment tool also has some troubles with SPDX
* Review CycloneDX Formulation BOM (workflow/build capture) - Matt Rutkowski will present
    * See RFC: Open issue: [https://github.com/CycloneDX/specification/issues/31](https://github.com/CycloneDX/specification/issues/31)
    * Pull request: [https://github.com/CycloneDX/specification/pull/222](https://github.com/CycloneDX/specification/pull/222)
    * There are customers who need the entire runtime stack (including hardware)
    * Part of GA v1.5 and can be seen in the online schema here: [https://cyclonedx.org/docs/1.5/json/#formulation](https://cyclonedx.org/docs/1.5/json/#formulation)
* If there’s time, Josh would love feedback on this document
    * [https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/blob/2494c23ed8d8e2d39bb875e2f52c20bc05be6c9c/action-plan/best-practices/README.md](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/blob/2494c23ed8d8e2d39bb875e2f52c20bc05be6c9c/action-plan/best-practices/README.md) 

<h3>2023-06-06</h3>


Attendees (please add yourself)



* Please use the tools [attendees](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1jzxhzIfkOMTagpeFWYoZpMKwHYeO4Gc7Eq5FcMFEw2c/edit#) list as we using that meeting

Agenda:



* Please introduce yourself in the chat
    * Everyone, not just new people
* Tim, George, Dan, Sarah will try to get some folks to speak to us about how to build SBOMs
    * Please add details about anyone willing to do this
    * Sarah Evans/Kate Stewart: Have confirmed Joshua Watt to discuss what was involved in implementing SPDX in Yocto (Will have to drop at the bottom of the hour)
    * Tim Pepper: Have confirmed Avi Deitcher (Open Source Software Specialist, ZEDEDA, [lf-edge/eve](https://github.com/lf-edge/eve)) can share an experience report around integrating SBoM generation in the Eve OS open source project’s containers based build system, lessons learned, actions the process drove in the project’s engineering practices
    * Dan Applequist: [will defer to next call] 
* If there’s time, Josh would love feedback on this document
    * [https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/blob/2494c23ed8d8e2d39bb875e2f52c20bc05be6c9c/action-plan/best-practices/README.md](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/blob/2494c23ed8d8e2d39bb875e2f52c20bc05be6c9c/action-plan/best-practices/README.md)

Notes:



* Guest: Josh Watts
    * Josh’s FOSDEM talk: [https://fosdem.org/2023/schedule/event/sbom_openembedded_yocto/](https://fosdem.org/2023/schedule/event/sbom_openembedded_yocto/) 
    * Challenge: Tools not able to consume linked SBOMs
    * Code is about 3000 lines of python
    * Would like to consume SPDX source SBOM documents from upstream repositories, and pull them in and link to them.
    * Because of reliance on minimal host dependencies, stuck with “stock python”,  but worries that have to parse
    * Combining documents - looking to be able to handle this better and get rid of index file. 
    * Not trying to “guess” docker container.
    * Matt raising teckton & kubernetes configuration to hardware on cloud.
    * More information about this can be found at:
        * https://youtu.be/Q5UQUM6zxVU
        * https://youtu.be/h6PRf4zxnR4
        * https://youtu.be/6zms_qGmVqg
        * https://youtu.be/8X5PWa7A6pY
* Guest: Avi Deitcher
    * Independent consultant (via my LLC) for years. Been involved with lfedge/eve-os for the last several years
    * Summarized how the EVE-OS project is built  
        * it is a pre-built image for each hardware platform. 
        * Single distribution, Distributed as artifacts on github.
        * Built around LinuxKit (OS composition engine) based on YAML containers, creates bootable OS.
        * Eve-OS Makefile, as part of build stages, rootFS tar, then uses Syft generator on it, and saves it out. 
        * Tool takes OCI images and generate SPDX JSON out.
    * Challenges
        * Kernel, Kernel modules, Init -- scanners have hard time extracting module info.   Building native in go, and upstreaming.
        * Depth of Items → 15-20 install databases, with multiple contained files systems within there. 
        * Multiple package databases,  compiled binaries from C are problematic for scanners. 
        * Packages inside Packages inside Packages,  raw disk images. 
        * Alpine packages -- goes and retrieves APK, and update install db.   Alpine DB doesn’t include the info necessary to go back upstream.  Commit is not sufficient.   Proposals on gitlab on how to address.  Possibly looking at adding PURL in DB…
        * Package mutability is a problem - as it can be overwritten. 
        * Sources can disappear - matters for source tracing and SBOMs.
            * Tim notes: A couple informative links around these complexities: 
                * [https://github.com/lf-edge/eve/blob/master/docs/EVE-IMAGE-SOURCES.md](https://github.com/lf-edge/eve/blob/master/docs/EVE-IMAGE-SOURCES.md)
                * [https://github.com/lf-edge/eve/blob/master/docs/EVE-IMAGE-REPRODUCIBILITY.md](https://github.com/lf-edge/eve/blob/master/docs/EVE-IMAGE-REPRODUCIBILITY.md)
        * Not getting it during build, only at the end of the build. 
        * So stuff that does not get caught.
    * Daniel working on experiments with scanning containers, will sync with Avi offline. 
    * GoVersion -m,  main override.   
    * Matt - is it viable to have tag mutability with hash?  Avi - possibly.  Main package source tracing is a big philosophical issue. 
    * Installed with embedded OCI images as well as on Github.   Sort of becoming a standard where sticking SBOMs, but not widely adopted.
    * Tim: SBOM is just something that is useful to product?   Avi: lot of work, but come out of this and come up much more cleanly.   How it's attached and standardized still works, but much easier to have conversations about.   Tim: it's about creating a feedback loop, painful but beneficial.
    * Matt: In terms of container scanning - when one has been flattened/compressed - how can we extract from compressed SBOMs?  Avi: Haven’t tried in this space.   Tim:  Introspection of docker file level, scan outputs and inputs, both likely needed.   Has proved useful.   Avi:  Integration with build tools (like Buildkit) is challenging.   SBOM integration,  during build, as well as at the end of the scan.   Stuff is still young. 

<h3>2023-05-23</h3>


Attendees (please add yourself)



* Please use the tools [attendees](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DoB7zgtLsP-JGF77ASkHV7UMofTE2wseniexaa6Q4M8/edit#) list as we using that meeting

Agenda:



* Please introduce yourself in the chat
    * Everyone, not just new people
* Open Source Summit recap
    * SBOMs - AI pervasive interest
    * Lots of focus on SBOMs
    * More discussion about AI/ML in SBOMs
    * SBOMs for training data as well as LLM model
    * Kate Stewart SBOMs for data sets and training models.  
        * What is the relevant information to capture? IMB, Microsoft, etc 6 months ago came out with training and information sheets. There were common data components between them. IEEE AI ethics and others to articulate what makes sense to capture.
        * AI Profile for SBOMs [https://zoom.us/j/92452702075](https://zoom.us/j/92452702075) Wednesdays weekly from 3-4pm mountain time. Minutes: [ttps://spdx.swinslow.net/p/spdx-ai-minutes [google.com]](https://urldefense.com/v3/__https:/www.google.com/url?q=https*3A*2F*2Fspdx.swinslow.net*2Fp*2Fspdx-ai-minutes&sa=D&ust=1683657240000000&usg=AOvVaw2AuPsboMHwPx6zLmx3LGhn__;JSUlJSU!!LpKI!ko-9sbKoNzA2q44Rca4IyX5O0XBZ52P0QXjPO1eksFr74hiVMpcmJmW-8IlJv3Kh19TwZtWmbRrl_cM85rf8CloZfJY$)
* Getting open source to generate SBOMs
    * We expect this will be a challenge to get open source projects to do this
    * We need an easy button to generate SBOMs
    * What work is required to get “1 click” SBOMs, like Zephyr? Can be consumed by Risk-Metrics Dashboard. Also, can be used by the dev/project to identify and resolve surprises or issues as they emerge (e.g. I just picked up a license by a new open source dependency). Can we have a team of people from this SIG go into prioritized projects and make the “1 click” SBOM happen? 
    * There are some projects starting to generate SBOMs
        * We should try to find some good examples (especially projects that aren’t very large)
        * Github will automatically generate an SBOM. How many people knew that? There are quality aspects to consider.
    * How can we send people to help projects to create SBOMs?
        * We could use a playbook to help with this
            * For example on GitHub you can get a source SBOM easily
        * What about build SBOMs?
    * GitHub’s mechanisms: “Introducing self-service SBOMs” [https://github.blog/2023-03-28-introducing-self-service-sboms/](https://github.blog/2023-03-28-introducing-self-service-sboms/)
        * Yes, they’re limited, but if you try to do too much at first people will give up.
    * Need to go “help some projects” - then can write some documents once we have more experience
    * Prioritize alpha (from alpha and omega) projects
    * Education SIG has some goals and funding suggestions
        * Look at this (also find it)
        * [https://github.com/ossf/education/tree/main/plan](https://github.com/ossf/education/tree/main/plan)
    * Start to write this down [Josh]
        * Pick a few projects
        * Figure out how to generate the SBOMs
        * How do we keep doing this moving forward
        * Perform a process to generate an SBOM in one click
* “Types of SBOM” report is publicly available:
    * [https://www.cisa.gov/resources-tools/resources/types-software-bill-materials-sbom](https://www.cisa.gov/resources-tools/resources/types-software-bill-materials-sbom) 
* Use cases working session
    * 
* Asks for the team
    * Review the use cases [document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/15X0TspuxUg19YScqNK1tl5kYpJV2xOrcuSx6CwanYZ0/edit)
    * Review education SIG [plan](https://github.com/ossf/education/tree/main/plan)
    * Review action [plan](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/tree/main/action-plan)
        * This needs some sprucing up to match some of the current efforts
    * Tim, George, Dan, Sarah will try to get some folks to speak to us about how to build SBOMs

<h3>2023-05-09</h3>


Attendees (please add yourself)



* Please use the tools [attendees](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DoB7zgtLsP-JGF77ASkHV7UMofTE2wseniexaa6Q4M8/edit#) list as we using that meeting

Agenda:



* Please introduce yourself in the chat
    * Everyone, not just new people
* SBOM 

<h3>2023-04-25</h3>


Attendees (please add yourself)



* Please use the tools [attendees](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DoB7zgtLsP-JGF77ASkHV7UMofTE2wseniexaa6Q4M8/edit#) list as we using that meeting

Agenda:



* Please introduce yourself in the chat
    * Everyone, not just new people
* Use cases working session
    * 

<h3>2023-04-11</h3>


Attendees (please add yourself)



* Please use the tools [attendees](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DoB7zgtLsP-JGF77ASkHV7UMofTE2wseniexaa6Q4M8/edit#) list as we using that meeting

Agenda:



* Please introduce yourself in the chat
    * Everyone, not just new people
* Use cases document [Kate]
    * 
    * graphical/slides version:  
* [Evaluation of OSS SBOM Generators - Google Docs](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1UeV0BhZHKBIJY8fi40hAly3jP_dH9u7Nao4Alw8fY0Y/edit#heading=h.han9gzlxnpby) status?

2023-03-28 [Open SSF - Documenting SBOM Use Cases](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/12swjrd6NSrQ1ngbCJJ1YghAEM_qgPsRIkTYlA3mMSpI/edit#slide=id.g1e8f905eac5_0_333)


Attendees (please add yourself)



* Please use the tools [attendees](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DoB7zgtLsP-JGF77ASkHV7UMofTE2wseniexaa6Q4M8/edit#) list as we using that meeting

Agenda:



* Please introduce yourself in the chat
    * Everyone, not just new people
* Action plan is in GitHub!
    * [https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/tree/main/action-plan](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/tree/main/action-plan)
* SBOM landscape
    * Josh will try to document all of this
    * SBOM landscape: conceptually similar to the [CNCF’s landscape documents](https://landscape.cncf.io/) to give a sense of the many projects and domains around SBOM creation and management
    * Getting help from Tracy Miranda, regarding is there a re-usable tool?
* Use cases document [Kate]
    * 
    * Can we start to write these up?
    * graphical/slides version:  

<h3>2023-03-14</h3>


Attendees (please add yourself)



* Please use the tools [attendees](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DoB7zgtLsP-JGF77ASkHV7UMofTE2wseniexaa6Q4M8/edit#) list as we using that meeting

Agenda:



* Please introduce yourself in the chat
    * Everyone, not just new people
* Town hall update [Josh]
* Mobilization plan - SBOM - draft proposal [SarahE/DanA]
    * Action - review it [everyone]
        * End of march get this on github
    * **[https://docs.google.com/document/d/1v0e0Nvlx0EPBjILLVIJtg-621KzEqgF9zCEtM6zryHU/edit#](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1v0e0Nvlx0EPBjILLVIJtg-621KzEqgF9zCEtM6zryHU/edit#)**
* Tooling/SBOM Landscape funding proposal
    * Finish this up [Josh and Kate]
        * Before next meeting
    * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1gLSMHJ-l09r73aBDAIG4ld4pbC85D5UgTaICKqmKXKg/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1gLSMHJ-l09r73aBDAIG4ld4pbC85D5UgTaICKqmKXKg/edit)
* “Evaluation of OSS SBOM Generators” [DavidW]
    * Action - We need to fill this out [everyone]
        * Volunteers needed
    * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1UeV0BhZHKBIJY8fi40hAly3jP_dH9u7Nao4Alw8fY0Y/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1UeV0BhZHKBIJY8fi40hAly3jP_dH9u7Nao4Alw8fY0Y/edit)
* Documenting SBOM User Needs [Dan]

Notes:



* Town hall happening on the 16th - SBOM everywhere is one of the topics.  [Webinar Registration - Zoom](https://zoom.us/webinar/register/2516764094597/WN_2rz5aASDTa2o5axt7Myhog)
* Mobilization plan doc - dan to check into Github
* SBOM landscape proposal - 
* David: Looking at current state of SBOM generation tools… 

<h3>2023-02-28</h3>


Attendees (please add yourself)



* Please use the tools [attendees](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DoB7zgtLsP-JGF77ASkHV7UMofTE2wseniexaa6Q4M8/edit#) list as we using that meeting

Agenda:



* Please introduce yourself in the chat
    * Everyone, not just new people
* Mobilization plan - SBOM - draft proposal [SarahE/DanA]
    * Action - review it [everyone]
        * End of march get this on github
    * **[https://docs.google.com/document/d/1v0e0Nvlx0EPBjILLVIJtg-621KzEqgF9zCEtM6zryHU/edit#](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1v0e0Nvlx0EPBjILLVIJtg-621KzEqgF9zCEtM6zryHU/edit#)**
* Current documents in flight [JoshB]
    * Google doc: 
    * Landscape funding proposal
        * Finish this up [Josh and Kate]
            * Before next meeting
        * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1gLSMHJ-l09r73aBDAIG4ld4pbC85D5UgTaICKqmKXKg/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1gLSMHJ-l09r73aBDAIG4ld4pbC85D5UgTaICKqmKXKg/edit)
    * “Evaluation of OSS SBOM Generators” [DavidW]
        * Action - We need to fill this out [everyone]
            * Volunteers needed
        * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1UeV0BhZHKBIJY8fi40hAly3jP_dH9u7Nao4Alw8fY0Y/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1UeV0BhZHKBIJY8fi40hAly3jP_dH9u7Nao4Alw8fY0Y/edit)
        * Early, help needed!
        * This information is necessary, because we need to eventually create to recommendations from OpenSSF for toolchains to use for various situations
        * Want to eventually recommend tools & have investments in tools
* Documenting SBOM User Needs [Dan]
    * Action - User needs document
        * Volunteers needed - contact DanA
        * Do literature search of existing content [everyone]
    * Is there a need for this workstream to produce (as part of the landscape?) a set of SBOM user needs mapped to specific personas (e.g. CISO person, developer, AppSec person, etc..)?
    * User needs specifically focused around “SBOM in Scorecard” ← referencing these issues: 
        * [https://github.com/ossf/scorecard/issues/1476](https://github.com/ossf/scorecard/issues/1476) 
        * [https://github.com/ossf/scorecard/issues/2605](https://github.com/ossf/scorecard/issues/2605) 
    * What are SBOMs good for and not good for?
    * Not exactly best practices (or use cases), this is more user focused
    * User wants to do something - Every persona wants to do something different
    * Example: vulnerability incident response team member - use a tool to identify risk after vuln is disclosed

Post meeting todo:



* Mobilization plan - SBOM - draft proposal [SarahE/DanA]
    * **Action** - review the document, provide comments in the google doc [**everyone**]
        * End of March get this on github
    * **[https://docs.google.com/document/d/1v0e0Nvlx0EPBjILLVIJtg-621KzEqgF9zCEtM6zryHU/edit#](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1v0e0Nvlx0EPBjILLVIJtg-621KzEqgF9zCEtM6zryHU/edit#)**
* SBOM landscape funding proposal
    * **Action** - finalize the document before next meeting [**JoshB and KateS**]
    * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1gLSMHJ-l09r73aBDAIG4ld4pbC85D5UgTaICKqmKXKg/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1gLSMHJ-l09r73aBDAIG4ld4pbC85D5UgTaICKqmKXKg/edit)
* Evaluation of OSS SBOM Generators document [DavidW]
    * **Action** - Volunteer to work on document [**everyone**]
        * Please contact David Wheeler to help
    * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1UeV0BhZHKBIJY8fi40hAly3jP_dH9u7Nao4Alw8fY0Y/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1UeV0BhZHKBIJY8fi40hAly3jP_dH9u7Nao4Alw8fY0Y/edit)
* Documenting SBOM User Needs [DanA]
    * **Action** - User needs document [**everyone**]
        * Volunteers needed - contact DanA to help

<h3>2023-02-14</h3>


Attendees (please add yourself)



* Please use the tools [attendees](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DoB7zgtLsP-JGF77ASkHV7UMofTE2wseniexaa6Q4M8/edit#) list as we using that meeting

Agenda:



* Please introduce yourself in the chat
    * Everyone, not just new people
* Current documents in flight
    * Google doc: 
    * Landscape funding proposal
        * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1gLSMHJ-l09r73aBDAIG4ld4pbC85D5UgTaICKqmKXKg/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1gLSMHJ-l09r73aBDAIG4ld4pbC85D5UgTaICKqmKXKg/edit)
* Connecting resources to open source projects
    * Document from Sarah Evans
    * Look at what the education SIG is doing
    * [https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/134](https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/134) - [Proposed Initiative] OpenSSF EDU.SIG Mobilization Plan Review #134 - this is a useful model for this group.
    * Suggested proposal ideas
        * Best Practices wg has 3 items in their proposed plan: 
            * 1.0 Collect & Curate Content
            * 2.0 Expand Training
            * 3.0 Reward and Incentivize Developers and Maintainers
        * Here are Dan Applequist’s proposed equivalents for SBOM everywhere:
            * **SBOM Landscape**
                * Map of all things SBOM with pointers to others’ material
                * Develop an SBOM landscape. Have it linked in OpenSSF Diagrammers Society? [GitHub - ossf/Diagrammers-Society: OpenSSF Diagrammers Society](https://github.com/ossf/diagrammers-society)
                    * Tools  ([Tooling Landscape Quotation - Google Docs](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1gLSMHJ-l09r73aBDAIG4ld4pbC85D5UgTaICKqmKXKg/edit)). 
                    * Standards: SPDX, CycloneDX, new OWASP standards
                    * SBOM Use Cases (IBM has been creating use case, OWASP above). Create a matrix of use cases for SBOM creator and SBOM consumer use cases. 
            * **Establishing an OpenSSF Tool Chain for SBOMs**
                * Evaluation of tools, especially libraries, focusing on SBOM generators, SBOM parsers 
                    * “Evaluation of OSS SBOM Generators” [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1UeV0BhZHKBIJY8fi40hAly3jP_dH9u7Nao4Alw8fY0Y/edit#](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1UeV0BhZHKBIJY8fi40hAly3jP_dH9u7Nao4Alw8fY0Y/edit#)
                * Are there existing tools that OpenSSF member companies can contribute to this effort? Could participate in larger OpenSSF conversations about how this contributes to the “Sterling Toolchain”
            * **Establishing SBOM Best Practices**
                * Writing down the best practices around use of SBOMs in the ecosystem for various users/use cases. Leverage the SBOM Use cases from the Landscape.
            * **SBOM Education**
                * SBOM primer aimed at developers and decision makers who don’t know what we’re talking about
                * Developing educational materials in cooperation with the Best Practices Education SIG to promulgate the best practices and use of OpenSSF SBOM tool chain
* Let’s in parallel create a Google document “Evaluation of OSS SBOM Generators”
    * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1UeV0BhZHKBIJY8fi40hAly3jP_dH9u7Nao4Alw8fY0Y/edit#](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1UeV0BhZHKBIJY8fi40hAly3jP_dH9u7Nao4Alw8fY0Y/edit#)
* SBOM landscape is huge. Need to split it into separate sections e.g. look at SBOM generators to support license compliance, SBOM generators to support vulnerability management, etc…. One SBOM generator won’t cover everything. We also need to look at where in the SBOM lifecycle the generators fit (design, build, runtime etc). The CycloneDX tool center is a great start (and resource). We need a single format agnostic resource.
* FOSDEM showed that very little use of SBOMs was happening. Some movement in generation but no traction on consumption of SBOMs. Siemens clearly demonstrated that they needed different SBOMs for different use cases (and the external one needed far less information than an internal one). Another big issue is the quality of the data in the ecosystems. If vulnerability management is to deliver any of the benefits which the US and the EU (and now the UK) want, the data in the vulnerability data sources needs to be aligned with the names of the components in the language ecosystems. Who is looking at this?

<h3>2023-01-31</h3>


Attendees (please add yourself)



* Please use the tools [attendees](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DoB7zgtLsP-JGF77ASkHV7UMofTE2wseniexaa6Q4M8/edit#) list as we using that meeting

Agenda:



* Please introduce yourself in the chat
    * Everyone, not just new people
* OpenVEX overview [Dan Luhring] - 10 min
    * Created by Chainguard. Also involved: Google, Anchore, VMWare.
    * [https://github.com/openvex](https://github.com/openvex)
    * “OpenVEX is an implementation of the Vulnerability Exploitability Exchange (VEX for short) that is designed to be minimal, compliant, interoperable, and embeddable.”
    * Spec: [https://github.com/openvex/spec/blob/main/OPENVEX-SPEC.md](https://github.com/openvex/spec/blob/main/OPENVEX-SPEC.md)
    * Recommends using package URLs (pURLs) to identify components.
    * CISA is working on VEX & what a VEX document should include. Hoping to get it out ~2-3 weeks
    * What about the licensing?
        * Document for licensing being worked. Apache 2.0 license for code, Open Specification License for specification (as required by OpenSSF)
* Connecting resources to open source projects
    * Document from Sarah Evans
    * Look at what the education SIG is doing
    * [https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/134](https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/134) - [Proposed Initiative] OpenSSF EDU.SIG Mobilization Plan Review #134 - this is a useful model for this group.
    * 
* Current documents in flight
    * Google doc: 
    * Landscape funding proposal
        * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1gLSMHJ-l09r73aBDAIG4ld4pbC85D5UgTaICKqmKXKg/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1gLSMHJ-l09r73aBDAIG4ld4pbC85D5UgTaICKqmKXKg/edit)
* Things we want resources to work on
    * SBOM examples [Josh]
    * 
* Sara start a document similar to what the Education SIG is doing
    * Dan to help
* Landscape funding review [Josh]

<h3>2023-01-17</h3>


Attendees (please add yourself)



* Please use the tools [attendees](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DoB7zgtLsP-JGF77ASkHV7UMofTE2wseniexaa6Q4M8/edit#) list as we using that meeting

Agenda:



* Please introduce yourself in the chat
    * Everyone, not just new people
* Unless there is a more pressing topic, we will work on the document in the issue below
    * Google doc: 
    * Landscape funding proposal
        * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1gLSMHJ-l09r73aBDAIG4ld4pbC85D5UgTaICKqmKXKg/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1gLSMHJ-l09r73aBDAIG4ld4pbC85D5UgTaICKqmKXKg/edit)

<h3>2022-12-20</h3>


Attendees (please add yourself)



* Please use the tools [attendees](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DoB7zgtLsP-JGF77ASkHV7UMofTE2wseniexaa6Q4M8/edit#) list as we using that meeting

Agenda:



* Please introduce yourself in the chat
    * Everyone, not just new people
* Unless there is a more pressing topic, we will work on the document in the issue below
* Define scope and purpose [BrandonL]
    * [https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/12](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/12)
    * Google doc: 
* Discussion of DBOM = Digital BOM. Share SBOMs & related artifacts. More of a distribution system.

<h3>2022-12-06</h3>


Attendees (please add yourself)



* Please use the tools [attendees](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DoB7zgtLsP-JGF77ASkHV7UMofTE2wseniexaa6Q4M8/edit#) list as we using that meeting

Agenda:



* Please introduce yourself in the chat
    * Everyone, not just new people
* Alan’s update on SBOM
    * 5 public working groups focused on enhancing and scaling SBOM
    * VEX - share a machine readable advisory that says something is not affected
    * Sharing and exchanging SBOM - how do we move SBOMs around?
    * On ramps and adoption - how do we make it easier and cheaper to use SBOM?
    * Cloud - How do we use SBOMs in the cloud
    * Tooling and implementation - How do we integrate and where in the software lifecycle
* Unless there is a more pressing topic, we will work on the document in the issue below
* [https://ortelius.io/](https://ortelius.io/)
* 
* Define scope and purpose [BrandonL]
    * [https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/12](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/12)
    * Google doc: 

<h3>2022-11-22</h3>


Attendees (please add yourself)



* Please use the tools [attendees](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DoB7zgtLsP-JGF77ASkHV7UMofTE2wseniexaa6Q4M8/edit#) list as we using that meeting

Agenda:



* Please introduce yourself in the chat
    * Everyone, not just new people
* Unless there is a more pressing topic, we will work on the document in the issue below
* [https://sbom-know-how.readthedocs.io/en/latest/](https://sbom-know-how.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)
* Finalizing SBOM definition document (aka  )
    * Input requested in next week.   Closing early December.
* Define scope and purpose [BrandonL]
    * [https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/12](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/12)
    * Google doc: 
* Ivana Atanasova to Everyone (11:13 AM)
    * [https://sbom-know-how.readthedocs.io/](https://sbom-know-how.readthedocs.io/)
* Kate presented “SBOM Types”: [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1PsUhUQ_L-lNymD9p613zP0_MiT1Boag68TP3aiwZ4R8/edit#heading=h.ix6zv5t41uel](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1PsUhUQ_L-lNymD9p613zP0_MiT1Boag68TP3aiwZ4R8/edit#heading=h.ix6zv5t41uel)

<h3>2022-11-08</h3>


Attendees (please add yourself)



* Please use the tools [attendees](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DoB7zgtLsP-JGF77ASkHV7UMofTE2wseniexaa6Q4M8/edit#) list as we using that meeting

Agenda:



* Please introduce yourself in the chat
    * Everyone, not just new people
* Review outstanding items, evaluate ownership
    * Things have sort of stalled out due to a number of external happenings, time to get it all back on track
* Python library funding [Kate]
    * [https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/6](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/6)
* SBOM one page overview [Kate]
    * [https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/4](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/4)
* SBOM use cases [Needs Owner]
    * [https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/3](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/3)
    * Is this something the CISA crew is putting together? Is that a better place for it?
    * Talk to Kate about having the CISA working groups tackle this (or if they already have this)
* Convert NTIA documents into something more GitHub friendly [Kate]
    * [https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/2](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/2)
* Define scope and purpose [BrandonL]
    * [https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/12](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/12)
    * There is a lack of focus and guidance around how to distribute a large number of SBOMs and what to do with them
        * If there are tens of thousands of SBOMs, do we ship them to customers, or just make them available?
    * We need to define the SBOM use cases to help define this
    * How to assign resources based on use cases
    * Strategic vs Tactical - Add to the mission and scope
    * We should use this group to help put pressure on groups like CISA to move the work forward
* Barriers to adoption [Tracy]
    * [https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/13](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/13)
    * SBOM forum and OpenSSF end users working group could provide some guidance here
* Can we start to track all the working groups?
    * We can do this in a landscape
    * We should create a list of known working groups
        * Chris Blask will help
    * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ssvft4gGjMc_mGabsc-aMETYrfbIzgQ8fnRCY_cKTrA/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ssvft4gGjMc_mGabsc-aMETYrfbIzgQ8fnRCY_cKTrA/edit)
    * 
* Minimum generation guidance [Josh]
    * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1zcqXhti9EhQijY8K-OpWx_XligC_oD-UEAJeGoXWZw4/edit#](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1zcqXhti9EhQijY8K-OpWx_XligC_oD-UEAJeGoXWZw4/edit#)

<h3>2022-10-25</h3>


Attendees (please add yourself)



* Please use the tools [attendees](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DoB7zgtLsP-JGF77ASkHV7UMofTE2wseniexaa6Q4M8/edit#) list as we using that meeting

Agenda:



* Please introduce yourself in the chat
    * Everyone, not just new people
* Python library funding [Kate]
    * [https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/6](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/6) 
    * The contractors have been working for the last month on the testbed
    * The code is now public
    * <Kate will fill in link>
    * Public meetings have started on Thursdays
        * Anyone interested in welcome to drop in
    * The refactoring has started
    * The Python pip folks didn’t want to generate SPDX because of problems in the Python library, they’ve been told that work is ongoing to fix those issues.
* SBOM one page overview [Kate]
    * [https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/4](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/4)
    * If interested in participating in discussion, please let Kate know and she’ll include in a meeting to specifically discuss.
* CISA “Workstream” (like a Working group) is ongoing
    * URL: ???
* SBOM use cases [Kathy]
    * [https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/3](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/3)
    * Nothing has happened for a while, do we need to keep it? Josh will look at this.
* Convert NTIA documents into something more GitHub friendly [Kate]
    * [https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/2](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/2)
    * We’re thinking about creating a landscape (like CNCF’s)
    * Would like to ask for money to create a landscape, once there’s a starting landscape we expect people will work to keep it updated
        * CRob offered to create a quick mock-up, as a way to get started
        * Probably will be a month or more before it’s ready
        * TAC was neutral earlier because they couldn’t visualize what it would do, so a demo
        * Key question: Include closed source? The current thinking is “yes”
    * Tracy: Key issue: Create the categories first, THEN create the landscape.
        * Note: Landscape can include items in ONLY one category (place), so need to identify their primary service
        * CISA is working on categories
        * “Keep it high level, don’t go into the weeds on a landscape”
        * The landscape code is actively maintained by CNCF
        * Tracy: Just the initial coding took ~40 hours to get started
        * “Landscape can be a good marketing tool” - make it broad as possible, as that helps bring in people/organizations
* Define scope and purpose [BrandonL]
    * [https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/12](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/12)
* Barriers to adoption [Tracy]
    * [https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/13](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/13)
* Remaining time can be used to review the purpose document started last meeting
    * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1iCL7NOSxIc7YpVI2NRANIy46pM-02G_WlPexQqqb2R0/edit#](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1iCL7NOSxIc7YpVI2NRANIy46pM-02G_WlPexQqqb2R0/edit#)
* Minimum generation guidance [Josh]
    * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1zcqXhti9EhQijY8K-OpWx_XligC_oD-UEAJeGoXWZw4/edit#](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1zcqXhti9EhQijY8K-OpWx_XligC_oD-UEAJeGoXWZw4/edit#)

<h3>2022-09-27</h3>


This meeting will take place during the Security Tooling WG [meeting](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DoB7zgtLsP-JGF77ASkHV7UMofTE2wseniexaa6Q4M8/edit#)

Attendees (please add yourself)



* Please use the tools [attendees](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DoB7zgtLsP-JGF77ASkHV7UMofTE2wseniexaa6Q4M8/edit#) list

Agenda:



* Python library funding [Kate]
    * [https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/6](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/6) 
    * Approved, contract has started with TNG Group
    * TNG Group is working the plan as agreed on.
    * October 15 will be the first community meeting for this effort
    * Kate will post details in Slack once the meetings start
    * Their community meetings will start Oct 15, anyone specifically interested please join - see Slack channel for invite details.
* SPDX 3.0 timeline
    * Core model is pretty much done - “harmonization appears to be achieved”
    * Candidate will be agreed soon, then serialization stabilized
    * Two must-have profiles: security & licenses
    * Months to be done
    * Underlying data model is changing - we’re avoiding field name changes (those have migration costs), deprecated ones are finally going away.
    * Best way to follow SPDX is to joining their meetings:  [https://github.com/spdx/meetings#tech-team-meetings](https://github.com/spdx/meetings#tech-team-meetings)
* SBOM one page overview [Kate]
    * [https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/4](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/4)
    * If interested to  participating in discussion, please let Kate know and she’ll include in a meeting to specifically discuss. 
* SBOM use cases [Kathy]
    * [https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/3](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/3)
* Convert NTIA documents into something more GitHub friendly [Kate]
    * [https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/2](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/2)
* Define scope and purpose [BrandonL]
    * [https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/12](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/12)
* Barriers to adoption [Tracy]
    * [https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/13](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/13)
* Remaining time can be used to review the purpose document started last meeting
    * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1iCL7NOSxIc7YpVI2NRANIy46pM-02G_WlPexQqqb2R0/edit#](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1iCL7NOSxIc7YpVI2NRANIy46pM-02G_WlPexQqqb2R0/edit#)

<h3>2022-09-13</h3>


This meeting will take place during the Security Tooling WG [meeting](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DoB7zgtLsP-JGF77ASkHV7UMofTE2wseniexaa6Q4M8/edit#)

Attendees (please add yourself)



* Please use the tools [attendees](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DoB7zgtLsP-JGF77ASkHV7UMofTE2wseniexaa6Q4M8/edit#) list

Agenda:



* Current working document
* **[https://docs.google.com/document/d/1iCL7NOSxIc7YpVI2NRANIy46pM-02G_WlPexQqqb2R0/edit#](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1iCL7NOSxIc7YpVI2NRANIy46pM-02G_WlPexQqqb2R0/edit#)**
* **(Do below this next week)**
* **Current work readout**
* Python library funding [Kate]
    * [https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/6](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/6) 
* SBOM one page overview [Kate]
    * [https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/4](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/4)
* SBOM use cases [Kathy]
    * [https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/3](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/3)
* Convert NTIA documents into something more GitHub friendly [Kate]
    * [https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/2](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/2)
* Define scope and purpose [NEEDS OWNER]
    * [https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/12](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/12)
* Barriers to adoption [Tracy]
    * [https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/13](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/13)

<h3>2022-08-30</h3>


This meeting will take place during the Security Tooling WG [meeting](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DoB7zgtLsP-JGF77ASkHV7UMofTE2wseniexaa6Q4M8/edit#)

Attendees (please add yourself)



* Please use the tools [attendees](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DoB7zgtLsP-JGF77ASkHV7UMofTE2wseniexaa6Q4M8/edit#) list

Agenda:



* **Old business**
    * Python library funding [Kate]
        * [https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/6](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/6) 
    * SBOM one page overview [Kate]
        * [https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/4](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/4)
        * 
            1. Please add comments to this document to propose changes
    * SBOM use cases [Kathy]
        * [https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/3](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/3)
        * The NTIA documents focused on suppliers and consumers, not stages
        * We can also cover some of the types of SBOMs in here
    * Convert NTIA documents into something more GitHub friendly [Kate]
        * [https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/2](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/2)
        * Goal: Help people find the tools that would help them (not implement the tools, that’d be a separate thing)
        * Graph following tools: Let’s create as a separate issue; GitBOM might be a useful input to the graph-following tool
        * Concern: If we create a taxonomy/landscape, we need to create clear vocabulary. We may need to clarify the vocabulary first.
        * Aeva: I focused on communities vs. tools in my list. Different communities are using the same words with different meanings.
        * David: You’ll never ALWAYS get agreement on definitions, but you certainly should try to do what you can & warn people when there are differences.
    * Document the current work in flight [Josh]
        * [https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/1](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/1)
    * Define scope and purpose [NEEDS OWNER]
        * [https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/12](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/12)
    * Barriers to adoption [Tracy]
        * [https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/13](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/13)
* **New business**
    * Allan Friedman CISA intro
        * VEX, Cloud vs. On-Prem, Tooling & Implementation
        * 
    * New issue for tracking and status updates of python library funding
    * [Matt] In terms of SBOM completeness (maturity) relative to formulation against complete SDLC is being looked at… initially a taxonomy (links here), but I have also seen an event model against the formulation (but do not have that link handy)...
        * The mindmap of the taxonomy currently in development is located:
        * [https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Uot5Ntm0NB3kJgHAc7fDtZTleJIhZS2P/view?usp=sharing](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Uot5Ntm0NB3kJgHAc7fDtZTleJIhZS2P/view?usp=sharing)
        * Use[ XMind](https://www.xmind.net/) to view the draft: [https://drive.google.com/file/d/1_GIylG4K3mT_TPeGJlIUj4HtouNRgtPQ/view?usp=sharing](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1_GIylG4K3mT_TPeGJlIUj4HtouNRgtPQ/view?usp=sharing)

<h3>2022-08-16</h3>


This meeting will take place during the Security Tooling WG [meeting](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DoB7zgtLsP-JGF77ASkHV7UMofTE2wseniexaa6Q4M8/edit#)

Attendees (please add yourself)



* Please use the tools [attendees](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DoB7zgtLsP-JGF77ASkHV7UMofTE2wseniexaa6Q4M8/edit#) list

Agenda:



* **Old business**
    * Python library funding [Kate]
        * [https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/6](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/6)
    * SBOM one page overview [Kate]
        * [https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/4](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/4)
    * SBOM use cases [Kathy]
        * [https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/3](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/3)
        * The NTIA documents focused on suppliers and consumers, not stages
    * Convert NITA documents into something more friendly [Kate]
        * [https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/2](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/2)
    * Document the current work in flight [Josh]
        * [https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/1](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/1)
* **New business**
    * We need to clearly define our goals and purpose for this group
        * Vicky is going to start working on this
        * Volunteers: Bunny (bunny@shebash.io), Randall ([ran.dall@icloud.com](mailto:ran.dall@icloud.com)), Sarah ([sarah.evans@dell.com](mailto:sarah.evans@dell.com))
        * **Josh will open a github issue for this**
            2. DONE: [https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/12](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/12)
    * David A. Wheeler:
        * Let’s focus on 3 use cases; we need automated tools to do these: (tie this into Vicky’s suggestion)
            3. EASILY Generate SBOMs during build-time across ecosystems
                * Used by developing organization, and transitively incorporating SBOMs from ingested components
            4. EASILY perform risk analysis of (potential) software based on its components (known vulnerabilities, obsolescence, licensing) using SBOM
            5. EASILY perform identification of which products in my organization likely contain a component vulnerable to a specific high-impact vulnerability (think Log4Shell) using SBOMs
        * At least the first 2 need well-running OSS tools that “just work” in all cases - if they’re not widely available, they won’t happen.
        * There are other use cases, but we need to focus.
            6. E.G., Generate SBOMs from final executables - there are tools that do it, and there are occasional needs, but it’s fundamentally absurdly hard, the odds of correct results are nearly 0% due to the need for huge heuristics. If you need it as a stopgap, use them, but that’s not a good long-term strategy. Focus on getting them from build-time instead.
            7. Lower-level libraries for reading/writing/analyzing SBOMs can be very useful components to implement those key use cases, but we need to focus on how they support the key use cases.
    * Tracy
        * What are the barriers to adoption? (this is a piece of what Vicky is going to build out)
        * People who want to product
        * People who want to consume
        * **Josh will open a github issue for this**
            8. DONE: [https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/13](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/13) 
        * Volunteers: Sarah ([Sarah.evans@dell.com](mailto:Sarah.evans@dell.com)), Bunny (bunny@shebash.io), Randall ([ran.dall@icloud.com](mailto:ran.dall@icloud.com))
    * Steve Springett
        * OWASP software component verification standard
            9. Similar to SLSA, but more broadMachine readable formats for taxonomy and models
        * Tell a user what a BOM can be used for
            10. This is a sub projects of SCVS
            11. BOM maturity model
            12. Services, AI, ML, software, …
            13. These tools don’t exist yet
        * **Josh will open an issue asking Steve to note existing groups in the readme**
            14. DONE: [https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/14](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/issues/14)
            15. 
        * David: I agree that we need the _functionality_ of “is this SBOM useful for purpose X”, but I think we can embed that as part of the risk analysis tools. They already have to be able to determine if their inputs are adequate to do their job
            16. E.g., if they intentionally don’t include transitive dependencies, then the SBOMs can mark themselves as “I stopped here” - which means those SBOMs can’t usefully provide information on those transitive dependencies to measure risk or warn about “big problems” like Log4Shell.
    * Steve Taylor
        * OPA can help define risk levels and acceptance criteria
    * (Missed the speakers name)
        * Two audiences: who wants to deliver SBOMs, and who wants to consume SBOMs
        * Can leverage confidence scores
        * Leveraging machine readable results that can be automated
    * Eric
        * Wipro is building a pipeline tool to tie together multiple stages for secure development environment
        * **Eric to mail the list about this topic**

<h3>2022-08-02</h3>


This meeting will take place during the Security Tooling WG [meeting](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DoB7zgtLsP-JGF77ASkHV7UMofTE2wseniexaa6Q4M8/edit#)

Attendees (please add yourself)



* Please use the tools [attendees](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DoB7zgtLsP-JGF77ASkHV7UMofTE2wseniexaa6Q4M8/edit#) list

Agenda:



* Python [library](https://github.com/spdx/tools-python) funding
    * The codebase is quite stale
    * [Kate] We have an estimate from a contractor to clean it up and make contributions easier. $180K is the estimate
    * Get the codebase cleaned up
    * Testsuite
    * Move from SPDX 2.1 to 2.2 and adding 2.3
    * This should make the transition to 3.0 easier
    * A lot of people are forking the python library
        * Not all forks are public
    * Javascript libraries should be next on the list
        * There are some subset SPDX javascript libraries
    * The [Java](https://github.com/spdx/tools-java) and [Go](https://github.com/spdx/tools-golang) libraries have good community support
    * [Aeva] Please give TAC a little time to work out some funding review questions (don’t raise it at the *next* TAC meeting, we have some other things we need to work on first)
* Next steps for this group - intended to be a SIG
* No “chicken bombing” (proposing work for OTHERs to do) - pigs vs. chickens, pigs are committed, chickens are involved, we need people who are committed
* Vicky: Make sure we’re clear about the goals, and have a chicken bombing barrier.
* **TODO**: [Josh, Cameron]
* Josh: Issue arose in Austin discussions.
* David A. Wheeler: Proposed next step: list OSS SBOM generators, with links to them - could be link(s) to others’ lists
    * Microsoft’s, Anchore’s, etc.
    * Let’s not duplicate work
    * Work done with NTIA - crowdsourced from NTIA (maybe should merge, because many tools support multiple formats)
        * “Tooling Ecosystem working with SPDX” [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1A1jFIYihB-IyT0gv7E_KoSjLbwNGmu_wOXBs6siemXA/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1A1jFIYihB-IyT0gv7E_KoSjLbwNGmu_wOXBs6siemXA/edit)
        * “Tooling Ecosystem working with CycloneDX” [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1biwYXrtoRc_LF7Pw10TO2TGIhlM6jwkDG23nc9M_RiE/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1biwYXrtoRc_LF7Pw10TO2TGIhlM6jwkDG23nc9M_RiE/edit)
        * “Tooling Ecosystem working with SWID” [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1oebYvHcOhtMG8Uhnd5he0l_vhty7MsTjp6fYCOwUmwM/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1oebYvHcOhtMG8Uhnd5he0l_vhty7MsTjp6fYCOwUmwM/edit)
        * **TODO**: Turn these into a machine readable format [Kate, Vicky, David, Bunny, Georg] - WIP see: 
            * We also need a github repo:  AI: 
                * CNCF has [landscapes](https://landscape.cncf.io/) (others do too) - landscapes were originally created by Dan Kohn
                * YAML file behind the portal: [landscape/landscape.yml at master · cncf/landscape (github.com)](https://github.com/cncf/landscape/blob/master/landscape.yml) 
                * Need to figure out classifications & things we want to search on. 
    * [Aeva] I have a list here, might be a useful starting point: 
        * **TODO**: Aeva present at next-next meeting
        * [supply-chain-synthesis/list-projects.md at main · AevaOnline/supply-chain-synthesis (github.com)](https://github.com/AevaOnline/supply-chain-synthesis/blob/main/documents/list-projects.md#sbom-generation--distribution-tools) 
        * David: Cool: I’d remove sigstore (that’s different) & I think there are a few missing, but this is a great start! 
            * [Aeva] great points! Feel free to open a PR ;) 
    * David: Missing: [https://github.com/microsoft/sbom-tool](https://github.com/microsoft/sbom-tool) … these are a great start, we need to merge
    * Alexios: OpenChain also has information: (big picture, capability maps, tools) [https://github.com/Open-Source-Compliance/Sharing-creates-value/tree/master/Tooling-Landscape](https://github.com/Open-Source-Compliance/Sharing-creates-value/tree/master/Tooling-Landscape) 
        * **TODO**: Alexios Zavras give quick overview in next meeting
    * “Should have a machine-readable format”
    * **TODO**: What are the use cases?   Document needs to fleshed out and structured. 
        * SBOM Use Cases for Security - [https://docs.google.com/document/d/15X0TspuxUg19YScqNK1tl5kYpJV2xOrcuSx6CwanYZ0/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/15X0TspuxUg19YScqNK1tl5kYpJV2xOrcuSx6CwanYZ0/edit)
        * I'd be happy to help as well, [ran.dall@icloud.com](mailto:ran.dall@icloud.com)
        * Kathy Goeschel will take point
        * Bunny Hernhhhhandez
        * Cameron Banowsky
        * David Wheeler willing to take a pass at adding in his thoughts. 
* It’d be good to coordinate so people use the same terms for same things (ie. type of SBOMs)
    * **TODO**: Kate Stewart: I can draft a short starting point
* **TODO**: Create git repo for SIG [Josh] **DONE**
    * [https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere](https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere)

<h3>2022-07-22</h3>


Attendees (please add yourself)



* Josh Bressers (Anchore)
* Kate Stewart (LF)
* Cameron Banowsky (Shebash)
* Bunny Hernandez (Shebash)
* Jeff McCoy (Defense Unicorns)

Agenda:



* Intros
* SIG Formation
* Next steps
    * We need additional members
        * We have a list of interested people
        * Where do we keep this list?
        * 
    * We want to ensure members are contributing substantially (chicken and pigs model)
        * How do we track and plan work?
            * Start with Google [docs](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/154MCLeIOQEgPpTUL7yzplOiipBVJ5KZJ)
            * Mailing list

Notes:



* OpenSSF - 10 streams one of which is  “Stream 9” SBOM everywhere.
* Needs better use cases, tooling,  education gap,  etc.   Fixing SBOM standards. 
* Create direction & purpose, figure out how to make it happen.
* Ingestion & use with access controls.   Data ownership.  
* Types of SBOMs


---

Agenda template

<h3>YYYY-MM-DD</h3>


Attendees (please add yourself)



* 

Agenda:



* Please introduce yourself in the chat
    * Everyone, not just new people
* 
